

Newspaper delivery revisited
============================

Let's go back to our newspaper delivery example; we'll consider the
delivery to Ms. Ada Lovelace in **Newspaper 1**. Below is a solution to that
problem, with a few added comments.

.. code-block:: javascript
   :linenos:

    take("star");

    // climb up first floor
    turn_left();
    move();
    turn_left();
    turn_left();
    turn_left();
    move();
    move();

    // climb up second floor
    turn_left();
    move();
    turn_left();
    turn_left();
    turn_left();
    move();
    move();

    // climb up third floor
    turn_left();
    move();
    turn_left();
    turn_left();
    turn_left();
    move();
    move();

    // get money
    take("token");
    take("token");
    take("token");
    take("token");
    take("token");

    // leave paper
    put("star");

    // turn around
    turn_left();
    turn_left();

    // climb down floor
    move();
    move();
    turn_left();
    move();
    turn_left();
    turn_left();
    turn_left();

    // climb down floor
    move();
    move();
    turn_left();
    move();
    turn_left();
    turn_left();
    turn_left();

    // climb down floor
    move();
    move();
    turn_left();
    move();
    turn_left();
    turn_left();
    turn_left();

This solution is quite long ... and it is easy to make mistakes when
typing it. We note however that there are quite a few repeated code
segments for which we could create functions. We have already defined
``turn_right()`` and ``turn_around()``; let's use them and define a few
others.

.. code-block:: javascript
   :linenos:
   
    import_lib();

    function climb_up_one_floor() {
        turn_left();
        move();
        turn_right();
        move();
        move();
    }

    function climb_up_three_floors() {
        climb_up_one_floor();
        climb_up_one_floor();
        climb_up_one_floor();
    }

    function climb_down_one_floor() {
        move();
        move();
        turn_left();
        move();
        turn_right();
    }

    function climb_down_three_floors() {
        climb_down_one_floor();
        climb_down_one_floor();
        climb_down_one_floor();
    }

    function get_money() {
        take("token");
        take("token");
        take("token");
        take("token");
        take("token");
    }

    // === End of definitions ===

    take("star");
    climb_up_three_floors();
    get_money();
    put("star"); // leave paper
    turn_around();
    climb_down_three_floors();

Each function contains no more than 5 instructions; it's much easier to
verify that each function does what it is supposed to do than verifying
an entire list of commands like we have previously. Once we know that
the functions do what they are supposed to do, making use of them allow
us to write a complete program in 6 more lines of code - again, much
easier to verify that it is right. All together, using functions to
avoid repetitions, we end up with a shorter program that is also much
easier to read.

It should be fairly simple to modify the above function definitions so
that we could deliver a newspaper to Mr. Babbage, in world **Newspaper 2.**

.. topic:: Do it!

   Modify the above program so as to deliver a newspaper to Mr. Babbage.

Later, we will see how we can write a single program, shorter than the
above, that will enable us to deliver newspapers to either Ms. Lovelace
or Mr. Babbage.

Since functions like ``get_money()``, ``climb_up_three_floors``, etc.,
are specific to this problem, it is probably **not** a good idea to save
them in the library; you don't want to have too many functions in your
library so that you are always able to remember all that are there. If
you do find that you use a function many times in different programs,
then it is a good idea to put it in your library.
