[comment]: # (This readme file is intended for the Javascript documentation)
[comment]: # (generated by jsdoc)

While the *World editing dialog* makes it possible to create your own world,
it is limited to create worlds with pre-defined objects.  Furthermore, it
creates static worlds which are then interacted with through a user's program.
A world creator may wish to introduce additional interactivity by changing
the state of the world when a user's program has achieved a partial goal,
like reaching a pre-defined position.  The functions documented here are
intended to give world creators all the flexibility they need to create
their own worlds.

If you find that some additional capability is required, or that the information
provided here is incorrect, please do not hesitate to get in touch with me.


### About the RUR namespace

Since the goal of Reeborg's World is to allow the user (student) to
run their own programs, name clashes have to be avoided between functions
created for Reeborg's World and those created by the student.
The imperfect solution I have chosen is to try, as much as possible, to use
a single global object or namespace,
`RUR`, which can stand for **Reeborg the UsedRobot**, and is also valid
in French as _le **Robot Usagé Reeborg**_, but refers to the first time the
name **robot** was used [see wikipedia:RUR](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/R.U.R.).

Please note that there are many more functions belonging to the `RUR` namespace
than what is documented here.  As a rule, you should not create additional
functions belonging to this namespace.

To see the functions defined and belonging to this object, please use the
**Namespaces** selector at the top of this page.